thanks to Allrecipes member kathleen
burton for submitting this roasted
garlic mashed potatoes recipe one member
claims I'm never making regular mashed
potatoes again and another member says
this was absolutely wonderful
I don't know why I don't make my mashed
potatoes like this all the time we loved
these let's begin this recipe by
roasting the garlic preheat the oven to
350 degrees
place the garlic on a sheet of aluminum
foil drizzle the garlic with a
tablespoon of olive oil then wrap it
with the foil
bake the garlic in the preheated oven
for about an hour or until it's tender
meanwhile peel 2 pounds of medium russet
potatoes you can also use Yukon Gold
potatoes if you'd like
cut them into quarters
put the potatoes into a large pot cover
them with cold water by at least an inch
and add a generous pinch of salt bring
the water to a boil over medium-high
heat reduce the heat and simmer the
potatoes until they are tender when
pierced with the tip of a knife about 15
minutes drain the potatoes
transfer them to a large bowl add four
tablespoons of softened butter 1/2 cup
of heated milk so that it doesn't bring
down the temperature of the potatoes and
salt and ground black pepper to taste
remove the garlic from the oven and
unwrap it
cut across the top of the head of garlic
exposing the cloves
squeeze the garlic cloves into the
potatoes discarding the skins
blend the potatoes with an electric
mixer on low speed until they're mashed
to the desired consistency
serve the potatoes hot topped with
butter and a sprinkling of salt and
pepper if you happen to be a real garlic
lover you may want to roast two heads of
garlic for these mashed potatoes as
several members have suggested